So, Moonshot have finally released their
AI model called Kimiko 3. And this is by
far one of the most surprising AI
releases because it fundamentally
changes the entire AI landscape. Now,
that isn't clickbait. This is a model
that is called Kimiko 3, 3 trillion
parameters, and a model that is on par
with Opus, the likes of GPT 5.6, and in
some cases better than Claude Fable 5.
So, in this video, I'll get into all of
the benchmarks, the use cases, the
things that you can do with this, and
I'll show you guys exactly why this has
changed the game.
So, one of the first things I want to
show you guys is the benchmarks because
they are just unbelievable. There's no
other way to put it. They are simply
unbelievable in every right. The thing
with these benchmarks is that often
times coding is highly regarded as the
area in which Anthropic or OpenAI seem
to dominate. And remember, guys, this is
an open-source model. So, the common
trend was that these models are maybe 6
to 12 months behind American
closed-source labs. But clearly, across
many different benchmarks, we can see
that Kimiko 3 is actually surpassing
Opus 4.8, and in some rare cases,
surpassing Fable 5. Now, this isn't
benchmarked, by the way. Sometimes
people will accuse open-source companies
of benchmark in the models, which
essentially just means that what they're
doing is they are basically training the
model so that it performs well on these
tests, and then when you try and use the
model in the real world, it just simply
doesn't perform well. The current
benchmarks that you're seeing are six of
the most difficult coding benchmarks,
and Kimiko 3 essentially comes in at
second or first place across all of
them. Now, that's really, really
impressive when you consider what is in
first place. That would be Anthropic's
Fable 5, which is a model that is super
big, closed-source, and it's been
developed for much longer. So, this
model, Kimiko 3, being number three on
the Deep Seek SW on the Frontier SW
being second place, on Qwen Code 2.0
bench internal being second place, on
the Terminal bench 2.1 being second
place, and on the program bench being
first place, and on SW marathon being
first place, this is a remarkable feat.
And I don't want to get into, you know,
just looking at just benchmarks and
benchmarks, but I think in this example,
because it's an open-source model that
of course will have the weights open for
anyone to download. And because this
kind of model was predicted to be months
away, I think you really need to take in
what we're actually seeing here. Now,
here's another section of benchmarks
that once again just go to show how
crazy this model is. And this is where
we have general agents. And this is all
maxed out on thinking effort max or
extra high. So, we've got six 27/8
different benchmarks here. And Qwen 1.5
3 essentially either tops it or comes in
at second place to only Fable 5 or GPT-4
5.6. So, so across not only standard
benchmarks, for those of you who are
thinking, "Okay, considering we're
moving towards an agentic future, how
does this kind of model perform?" This
model still manages to hold up in some
of the roughest scenarios, which means
that there isn't just a benchmarks model
like I've stated before. This is a truly
frontier model that most people need to
be paying attention to. Because now
we're starting to realize that maybe,
just maybe, it wasn't China just copying
the United States after all. Maybe China
have been innovating all along, and we
can see that with these charts. Agentic
benchmarks are really hard because, of
course, you want an agent to be able to
chain together multiple steps. And in
doing so, you risk the result of it
failing more times than you can count.
And Qwen 1.5 3 clearly holds up against
many different models. And in, you know,
comparison to other models by a very
significant margin. So, this is
something that I would say is nothing to
scoff at. Now, once again, if you want
to look at the most shocking benchmarks,
we can look at the Kimi K 3 being number
one in the front-end code arena with
1,679 points surpassing Claude Fable 5.
And this is crazy because if we look at
where it was before, that is a 17-place
jump from number 18 all the way up to
number one. So, I mean, this is pretty
crazy when we actually look at the
entire AI ecosystem. Because what does
it mean when China produces an
open-source model that rivals Fable 5,
which had all of this politics
surrounding it and stuff that of course
we'll get later. In front end, you know,
this is ranking, you know, number one in
six out of seven domains, okay? Brand
marketing, reference based design, data
and analysis, consumer products,
simulations, content creation tools, and
landing number two only in gaming behind
Fable 5. Now, that's pretty crazy when
you look at that. I mean, there are some
seriously good models here. And you
know, the craziest thing about all of
this is that Fable 5 was recently
released. GPT 5.6 Soul was actually
recently released, too. Meaning that
what we're currently looking at is
essentially the best of the best. Now,
you could argue that the models, you
know, there are some closed ones in the
top AI labs. Of course, that could be
true. But this is open-source, guys. If
we look at the directory here, this is
pretty crazy. Now, once again, if we
look at the comparison when you look at
the output compared head-to-head against
other AI models on the same task, it was
actually picked better than the other
models 76% of the time on average. For
reference, Claude Fable 5 and GPT 5.6
Soul was 58% and 50% is a baseline and a
model winning and losing equally often.
So, this is pretty crazy when it's going
toe-to-toe with closed-source models. It
means that they really do have something
special here. Now, once again, even if
we're not just looking at, you know,
those areas where it's strictly code and
math and economics, it still holds up
well in terms of the text areas. So,
this is a significant improvement over
the last jump moving from a 38 point on
the leaderboard all the way to point
number nine. That means it's top 10 in
creative writing, coding, and
instruction following, and number one in
three occupations, such as physical and
social science, legal and government,
and medicine and health care. Now, of
course, we just spoke about writing, but
some others have it in their personal
benchmarks as number one. So, Louis has
it and he's saying the big news from our
internal writing benchmark, Kimiko 3 by
Kimiko Moonshot is now number one for
writing in our editorial voice at 2,840
Elo, surpassing Claude Fable 5. And
that's a jump from 21 to number one over
its predecessor, Kimiko 2.6. And it runs
at about 25 cents per script, which is
five times cheaper than the model it
just displaced at the top. And this is
the first time an open weight model tops
their leaderboard. So, once again, this
is something where you can see that this
model is clearly excelling depending on
which benchmark you throw at it. Now,
another one I want to show you guys is
the Vowels Index, and this is something
that people don't really pay attention
to, but I think it's really useful
because what you really want to do is
look at how the models perform when it
comes to real-world usage. So, the
Vowels Index is essentially just that.
It's a benchmark consisting of weighted
performance across finance coding tasks,
showing the potential impact that LLMs
can have on the economy. Now, currently,
this shows Kimiko 3 ranking just
underneath Claude Fable 5 with a 74%
accuracy across many different tasks,
even above GPT 5.6 Soul, Sonnet 5, Opus
4.8, and Meta's recently released Muse
Spark. So, this is something that is
really, really incredible. Now, like I
said, this is something that when we
look at the index, we can also once
again look at a different index when it
comes to work. So, this one is once
again another work one and this is of
course the GDP valve. So, once again,
this is a benchmark I believe created by
Open AI or Frontier lab. And what they
essentially wanted to do was actually
look at whether or not these AI systems
are actually doing tasks that people
actually do at work. And when it does
those tasks, how good does it actually
perform at those tasks? So, what we can
see right here is that once again,
Gemini K3 actually makes a massive jump
all the way up to just beneath the human
baseline.
So, once again, this means it beats
Sonic 5, Opus 4.8, GPT-5.6 Terra, and
those are editions that are running on
their max reasoning settings. So, when
we actually take a look at this, this is
something that clearly, I believe, it
wasn't just another minor up date.
Gemini K3 is clearly a new entire base
model and they've clearly made some
incredible, incredible innovations when
it comes to actually performing this
well. So, I think this is something that
is super incredible and this is
something that most people haven't
realized just yet. And of course, as
more people start to use the model, they
will start to realize just how good this
is. Now, of course, I know we've spoken
about benchmarks quite a lot, but of
course, what you want to do is get a
very comprehensive view in terms of how
it looks overall. And that is exactly
where the artificial analysis index
comes in very handily. So, this is where
we look at where does Gemini K3 sit
across a range of different benchmarks.
This is nine different evaluations
[clears throat] including Terminal
Bench, Human Assisted Last Exam, GPQA
Diamond, you know, banking, I mean, just
just basically some of the top top
benchmarks. So, what we have here is of
course Gemini K3 once again performing a
massive jump, coming in at third place
just under GPT-4 0.6 all available 5.
And I think the main thing I want you
guys to understand here, this isn't some
large difference to which the Frontier
models are so far ahead. I would argue
that open-source models are basically on
par with the offerings that
closed-source models have to offer now,
which is very, very surprising
considering how far ahead, you know,
closed-source models have been. So, this
is something that, once again, I'm
saying is super, super surprising when
we look at just how far the jump that
is. If I would have had to guess
beforehand, I would have said that maybe
it's going to be at the level of perhaps
Grok 4.5 or GPT-4 0.6. But when we truly
look at where the model lies, it seems
like they just came up with some new
innovations to get this model to the
level it is currently at. Now, we've
spoken about intelligence for quite some
time. But what I want to look at, okay,
what I want to show you guys is the
pricing. Now, pricing is something Now,
what matters most is the pricing. So,
what we can see here is the fact that
Kimi Kate 3 is, of course, a very
powerful model. But how does it perform
when it comes to the pricing? Because if
this is a model that is just very
intelligent, but it's so expensive to
use, this isn't something that, I guess
you could say, is very useful. But in
this case, this is a model that is, of
course, very, very cost-effective to use
and is something that a lot of people
will be using considering just how
effective it is. The input is $3 and the
output is $15 per million tokens, which
is remarkable considering just how smart
this is. And when you compare it to the
other models, this is something that is
even more effective. So, when we look at
the pricing in terms of the cost per
intelligence for the task, we can see
that Kimi Kate 3 has an average cost of
94 cents per intelligence index task,
which is similar to GPT-4 0.6 all and
half the price of Opus coming in at a
dollar eighty. So when you look at just
how cost effective this is in terms of
the intelligence in terms of the raw
intelligence you're going to get it
actually seems like across the board in
terms of the top models it seems like it
is the most effective for you know the
level of intelligence that you're
actually getting. And this is something
that people have wanted. People want to
be able to use you know frontier levels
of intelligence without consistently
breaking the bank and without
consistently hitting rate limits. And
with the fact that this is such an
effective price we're now going to be
able to see that happen in real time. At
94 cents and basically coming in at
number two or one across many different
areas Claude Fable 5 and Opus 4.8 you
really start to look at them and second
guess their usability. Now one thing we
aren't even touching on is the fact that
like this is a model that doesn't have
all of those safeguards which I'll get
into later which means if you're trying
to do a standard project it's a less
likely to route your query to a less
intelligent model and just simply
telling you hey sorry we can't do what
you're asking. This simply isn't
possible. This is something that is
incredibly frustrating when you're
trying to use a frontier model. And if
you've ever used Fable 5 you know
exactly what I'm talking about. Not only
is it super expensive but you have to
really think about what you're going to
say to the model so that you don't trip
up one of its safety capabilities to
where it starts not giving you the
response you need. This is of course
super super annoying. Now what we can
also look at is where it kind of sits in
the middle here. So you can see that
Kimik 3 actually sits in a really good
zone. It sits in between GPT 5.6 all in
terms of the pricing. So once again
something super effective. If we look at
the code bench V2 the score versus the
task we can see that once again it
performs pretty decent very decent in
fact and it seems to be able to get more
than Opus 4.8 Max on the Kimiko bench V2
and basically costing nearly 60 to 80%
less than the nearest competition, which
is very, very effective. And then once
again, let's look at the browse comp and
this is why I say we have to focus on
the price. You can see that the cost per
task is all the way down here. You can
see the Mythos, you know, Claude Opus
4.8. Those are super, super expensive,
but Kimiko actually increases the score
and reduces the task. So, we have a
model that is not only smarter said,
people are going to start to wonder, why
am I using this model when I could be
using
something else, especially if this model
is going to be a lot cheaper and more
cost-effective and it's going to allow
me to get a lot more done with a lot
less. And we all know that like
inference and intelligence is super hard
to come by at the moment and it's
probably going to get worse in the
future. But, what we're looking at here
is of course something that is showing
us that this is going to be remarkably
effective in the future, provided that
these models continue to stay open
source. And it really is going to be
interesting to see where the future
lies. Now, something that you need to
understand as well is how on earth did
they do this? Because this isn't normal
what Kimiko has done. Kimiko has, you
know, really shocked the world. We've
seen the deep secret moment before that
essentially broke the stock market and
that was super interesting. But, Kimiko
3 right here is essentially doing this
again, but on either greater scale
because we didn't think that it was
going to take such a short amount of
time. We definitely thought maybe by the
end of the year a fable open source of a
model, but within just maybe two or
three months or even one month for that
fact, we managed to actually get there
fairly quickly. So, you can see that
what I'm looking at right now is the
size of the model because this is
something that people aren't talking
about a lot and it's one of the key
factors with us to how Kimiko have been
able to get such an incredible
performance. I mean, Moonshot, they have
done an incredible job and this is
exactly how. You can see that the total
parameters for each company's flagship
model from 2025 right up until 2026 has
increased almost three times, okay? And
this is the first open-source model to
reach 2.8 trillion parameters. And this
marks the latest step in Kimi's
sustained push at scaling frontier AI.
For the nine past, you know, 12 months,
Kimi models have continually been at the
upper size of the, you know, open model
sizes and they've pushed it to once
again showing us that scale does
continue. And so, when we look at the
fact that they've released an
open-source a model that is 2.8 trillion
parameters, nearly 3 trillion
parameters, that is something that is
very, very, very impressive. And we do
have to give hats off to Moonshot for
that. So, being the first open-source
model to reach 2.8 trillion parameters
is a huge feat and we can clearly see
the effects of that size. Training a new
base model clearly had the effects
intended and this is a model that is a
just sheer step up in a size and
intelligence showing us that China are
definitely ready to compete. Now, of
course, under the hood, how does this
thing work, okay? I'm basically going to
explain to you this complex diagram in
the simplest way possible. So,
essentially, Kimi K3 designed to use its
computing power more efficiently. First,
it uses mixture of expert system and the
model contains 896
different expert networks. But, for each
piece of information, it only activates
16 that are the most useful. So, instead
of using the entire model for every
task, it routes the problem to the right
specialist. It also includes two changes
called Kimi Delta attention and
attention residuals. And these are meant
to help important information move
through the model's many layers so
details are less likely to get lost or
weakened. The result, according to Kimi,
is around a 2.5 time improvement in
scaling efficiency compared with Gemini
K2. And that doesn't mean that Gemini K3
is simply 2.5 times smarter. It means
that as the company adds more compute
and more training data, K3 is able to
turn those resources into capability
more efficiently than the previous
model. So, Gemini K3 essentially just
has better information routing, so it
can get more intelligence out of the
same amount of compute. Now, some of you
guys are going to want to look at some
of the examples that have been shared on
Twitter. And I'm of course going to do a
much longer video in depth because there
is so much that this model is able to do
that you would not believe the examples
I'm seeing and the examples I've been
playing. I almost got carried away
whilst making this video. And you can
see here Chris GPT said, "Gemini K3 just
three-shotted this CS:GO export or clone
for me using around 600,000
tokens. $3.24
in API usage. Same token would cost $10
with Facebook 5 and $6 with GPT 5.6. The
era of free indie game development is
closer than you think." And so,
essentially what he's showcasing here is
just how incredible it is in terms of
the model being able to code a video
game. And you're going to see a lot more
examples of this, but this is something
that is really true. You are able to do
a lot when it comes to coding games with
Gemini K3. Because the model is so good
at, you know, doing entire code bases,
it's able to code functional games in
often one or two shots. Of course, with
one or two minor errors in some cases,
but most games I've seen or played have
been very, very effective. You can see
they've got their own examples, which is
this 3D open world. So, Gemini K3 built
a fully procedural browser-based 3D
exploration game using 3.js, WebGPU, and
GPU compute. And it procedurally
generated environment whilst using a 3D
asset generation tool to create the
rider and horse models, producing an
expansive open world with forests, a log
cabin village, snowy mountains, and
dynamic weather. And they used some
external assets such as an animated
cowboy and horse models and terrain
data, but nonetheless, this is still
something that is rather effective. We
can also look at case two, where Kimmy
K3 built a Game Boy Advance emulator by
adapting a licensed 3D model,
integrating a real MGB WASM core, and
enhancing both the interface and
gameplay through recursive
self-improvement. External assets were
used, of course, special thanks to
Nintendo, as they said, but this is
something that is just showing you just
how good this model is when you're able
to do these. And guys, by the way, you
are actually able to play these. So, I
know a lot of times they will come out
with demos that look super amazing and
super impressive, and then when you try
it, it just doesn't work the same way.
I've tried all of these, and all of
these are very, very effective. And
we've got another case here, which is
case three, and where Kimmy K3 built a
browser-based game-based
web swinging experience set in a
cyberpunk mega city, converting and
optimizing hundreds of blend assets into
real-time 3D worlds, and it designed
realistic traversal mechanics using
semi-implicit Euler pendulum swinging
physics with energy-conserving rope
constraints, and polished gameplay into
smooth 120 FPS experience. They did use
some, you know, equipment to do this,
but I actually played this game, and
honestly, it was pretty smooth. I do
have to say that my gameplay wasn't as
smooth as this. Maybe it's probably an
skill issue on my part, but it was
definitely very visually impressive, and
it didn't break at all. They also
showcased a mechanical typewriter, where
the prompt was given a spec for a
museum-grade 1930s typewriter web app.
Kimmy K3 used four sub-agents to build a
Vite/TypeScript/React/3.js app, and it
delivered 242 individually animated
parts and real exports. So, this is
something that wasn't just pretty. This
was something that actually did work in
terms of actually giving you the file
that you actually wanted. So, these are
the kind of things that it was able to
do. Not only was there that, there was
this case five with a voxel art
coliseum. Kimmy K3 built an interactive
world with a voxel art Roman coliseum
with Gallia gladiator jewels, animated
crowds, wildlife, and physics-driven
interactions. Iteratively self-improved
the environment and gameplay through 20
rounds using headless Chrome screenshot
inspection to detect and fix visual and
gameplay issues. So, once again, this is
one of those cases where we're actually
looking at just how good Kimmy K3 is in
terms of being able to iterate over a
large code base. Remember, one of the
key features of this model is that it's
able to think for a long time. Now,
there are some cases where people think
this is a disadvantage, and I honestly
have to agree because you don't want the
model overthinking everything, but they
basically showed this model is able to
get a lot of, you know, those difficult
tasks done, which is something that you
really do want to see for those models
because when it comes to the most
ambitious projects, oftentimes this is
where these open-source models do tend
to fail and break down. And so, if those
models hold up in those use cases, that
is where things get very impressive.
Now, we get another example here of the
voxel art coliseum. So, this one is
actually a 3D based fighting game on a
custom web GPU engine featuring combo
combat AI opponents, cinematic cameras,
and procedurally generated arenas, and
it integrated open asset engine into
rendering and gameplay systems, and
delivered a polished high-performance
experience, and it did use some external
assets such as animations pack. But
nonetheless, this is still showing you
what you can do when you have an AI
system that is agentic enough to get the
work done. They also were able to get a
wuxia style RPG. Kimmy K3 built a
browser-based 3D martial arts RPG
featuring melee combat, quests,
inventory, dynamic weather, and
explorable interiors. It modeled the
game environment in Blender with
improved collisions and PBR texturing,
integrated and adapted open assets, and
designed the complete gameplay
experience, and it used maybe one or two
external assets. So, this is something
that I think is going to be super
interesting for the world of game
development when you can simply code a
game that is super specific to you, that
you want in your style in your look, in
your fashion, that is going to open up
an entire world of creativity that we
never got to see before. K say is here
with a 4v4 FPS arena. It was able to
build an arena featuring eight weapons,
AI teammates and opponents, destructible
environments, and it procedurally
generated the game's characters,
weapons, environments, and visual
effects, designing a complete
multiplayer style gameplay experience.
And this is super super impressive if
you know just how much that, you know,
really takes in terms of design. We also
had it be able to recreate
Interstellar's Gargantua. So, this was
really cool. Apparently, this was where
Kimik AI 3 was working via watching
itself work from 62 screenshots, each
one read, diagnosed, and acted on. And
so, this was one of the most beautiful
visualizations, and it just goes to show
just how very effective Kimik AI 3 is.
It had cinematic mode, post mode, all
these different modes you're able to
visualize the beauty of Interstellar,
and actually spent a lot of time with
this because this is something that I
wanted to do for a while. If you haven't
seen the movie, it is a very good movie,
one of the best movies you can watch in
terms of many different factors, but the
beauty of Interstellar is not to be
understated. Now, some other areas that
I actually want to get into is things
such as chip design. So, essentially, as
an early proof of concept, Kimik AI 3
designed a chip to serve a nano model
built on its own architecture. In a
single 24-to-48-hour
autonomous run, Kimik AI 3 built,
optimized, and verified the chip using
open-source EDA tools on the Nanogate 45
nm library. And with millimeter
precision, this was very, very
effective. And so, a chip built by a
model, for a model, reflects GemiK3's
long-horizon attentive capability. All
they really wanted to do was see just
how effective this model is at long time
thinking, and how the model is able to
reason over essentially large files. And
it was able to do that and design its
own chip, which is, once again, I don't
want to say because people are going to
get mad, but those inklings of RSI. When
the models are really, really effective
for what they're able to do, who knows?
Maybe they'll be able to design systems
for themselves. Now, additionally, what
we have is coding. So, coding for
research is another demonstration we
got. So, GemiK3 bridges scientific
literature and executable code,
autonomously implementing, validating,
and analyzing complex computational
research workflows. In one case, GemiK3
completed in about 2 hours what would
typically require 1 to 2 weeks of work
by an experienced researcher. And to
reproduce these, you know, calculations
in computational astrophysics, it
reviewed and cross-validated 20-plus
papers, implemented the full numerical
pipeline, evaluated 300-plus equations
of state, identified inconsistencies in
published formulas, and generated
3,000-plus lines of Python code, and
produced an interactive HTML dashboard
for exploring the results, which I had
some fun exploring with. So, this is
something that is just showing you this
is a model they can get multiple
different things done. And one of the
things most people haven't realized is
that this is a good multimodal model,
too. Because the model is able to not
only code very well, but it has decent
enough vision to where it's able to look
at the work it has generated, take in
that information, then code based on
what it has seen. It's actually acting
like a real developer in terms of the
feedback loop. You know, you code
something, you look at it, see how it
performs, and then of course, you then
make your iteration. This is, of course,
I guess, a more human-like process,
which is why it is so much more
effective and, of course, so much more
surprising. Now, of course, we can see
motion design, and this one is really
cool because most people don't realize
that you can actually do this, but I've
tested this out quite a bit, and it is
hard to get, but Kimi 3 actually excels
at motion design, animation, and video
editing because its native multimodal
architecture understands text, images,
and video all within model. They're not
chaining things together, it's all
within the same model. So, in this
example, what they show is a 3 Blue 1
Brown style motion graphics explainer of
its own architecture, and it translate
the technical ideas into animated
diagrams and transitions. Now, I have to
be honest with you guys, this is
impressive because when you test this
with some other models, they make some
weird mistakes that just makes the video
not look that good, but because Kimi has
this agentic, you know, multimodal
feature and this architecture where it
understands text, images, and video all
within the same model, it means that it
can actually make videos that are
actually good to watch because it
essentially is watching the videos
itself, and then, you know, if there are
errors, it's going to catch those errors
before passing those off. So, this is
something that I personally think is
really effective. Essentially, if you
don't know how these videos are created,
you essentially just visually, you know,
code them. Essentially, they're just
lines of code. It's like a GitHub repo
that you can download, and then, of
course, the model is essentially writing
code, producing a video, looking at that
video, coming back to it, and then
editing it based on what it sees, and
this is the final output. Now, Kimi 3
didn't actually edit this video, but
there was a teaser video very similar to
this in which Kimi 3 basically
agentically edited the entire video. It
pulled, I think it was around 52
different video clips, sounds, effects,
all of that stuff, and compiled it into
a very, very interesting teaser video,
which you would have seen if you're on
Twitter yesterday. So, that was
something that is just showing you this
is the model that truly, truly has it
all when it comes to the thing you would
want out of an AI system. Now, not only
is there that, I want to get into some
of the things surrounding this model
because this model isn't being released
in a bubble. This is a serious model
with serious implications for the rest
of the AI world. Let's actually take a
look at some of the reactions because
some reactions are good and some
reactions are bad. Rune here, and this
is you know, Rune but OpenAI employee,
he says that the era of Chinese labs
being far behind is over. Kimi is at
least on par with the modern frontier
public models. People must think
differently now without any competitive
margin built in. And he said, "In the
coming days, I think that some people
will find Kimi K3 maybe less practically
useful than today's numbers suggest.
However, its reputation will settle as
an incredibly powerful model whose open
weights are on the web." And that is
very true. How was this going to change
the ecosystem if now you have open
source models that are on par with
current frontier labs. Are they going to
continue, you know, just training, you
know, better models? Are they going to
have to come up with continued new
architectures to stay ahead? Are they
going to, you know, eventually fall
behind? Is China going to be able to
race ahead while the United States is,
you know, dealing with all of these
pressures to slow down the model, slow
down the race? Are China just, you know,
even on an open source level is
completely going to dominate the AI, you
know, world? Is that going to happen? Is
America's open source ecosystem about to
starve? This is what we're going to have
to see. Some people on Reddit said this
is too good, practically Fable class.
This will be the first Chinese model
that I use daily. I can understand that.
It's cost-effective, it's really good.
And not only is that, it's of course
something that is going to be open
source, which means you can pretty much
do whatever you want to. You see here
another reaction to the price. He says,
"$3 input and $15 output, basically half
the cost of Sol and around the third of
Fable." Once again, price being a major
differentiating factor when it comes to
people using the model. And this is what
And this is what I'm talking about when
it comes to reactions. It says the White
House must be having a real hard time
figuring out how to put an export block
on something that isn't their product.
And this is of course talking about the
fact that once models cross certain
thresholds, they trigger certain
lockdown, shutdowns, restrictions. But
how is the White House going to do that?
Because this is the first time an
open-source model is essentially
released that is I guess you could say
quote-unquote somewhat dangerous because
it is at the Fables Mythos level. And we
already know that GPT-5.6 had to go
through government stuff before it was
released, the same with Fable 5. Elon
Musk actually also calls this
impressive. And one of the most
interesting things that I didn't see get
enough, um, you know, enough coverage is
the fact that the most interesting
question about the Kimiko 3 is whether
or not it poses a cyber risk. And this
is what I'm talking about. The Kimiko 3
benchmark should not include a cyber gym
score. And he's waiting for someone to
bench this model. So, cyber gym is
essentially the score where the model
can, you know, do the hacking stuff. And
And that's a very, very, you know, quick
summary. But essentially that's the
reason why there was this export block
at the first time [music] placed because
if AI models are able to, you know, hack
and do whatever they can, you don't
really want those kind of models falling
into bad actors. So, of course the US
government basically was like, "Look,
we're going to restrict this so that
only American people can use this so we
know exactly who can use the model
because if we use this model and we've
seen it was able to hack many of our
systems, well, we can't really just have
that out in the wild." So, what are the
true capabilities of this model in terms
of the cyber gym? Because if Kimiko 3
does pass that cyber gym threshold to
where it's better than GPT-5.6 so or
better than, you know, Fable 5, there
will be some questions raised in terms
of where this model should be. And
potentially [music]
there might be some new things coming in
terms of regulation for open-source
models. Previously, there wasn't any
regulation needed because the models
didn't pass this threshold. But right
now, they didn't release a cyber gym
score. Maybe they did it on purpose as
to not trigger those export controls.
Maybe they just did it because it wasn't
that impressive. I don't know just yet.
But what I do know is that when that
result does come out, maybe it's out
right now, maybe the video is, you know,
out a little bit later. But what you
know, when it does come out, that is
when you will be able to realize just
how much the landscape will change.
Either way, I think the Western labs are
going to have to buckle up because it's
going to be super interesting. They
can't purely rely on the benchmarks
anymore. They're going to have to make
sure they have their complete best
product offering because this is a real
shake-up in the markets. Now, of course,
some people have said that this isn't
the best model that exists. You can see
that, you know, Eduardo says that Kimik
A3 is getting a ton of hype and it's the
same hype cycle we see with every new
Chinese model. People fall in love with
the beautiful UI demos built in cheap
HTML files and fake operating systems
and car games and Minecraft clones and
flashy dashboards. And yes, Kimik A3 is
generally useful at UI work, probably
better than some top AI models, but that
is not an accident. These models are
heavily optimized for the exact visual
coding tests people keep repeating
online. The real tests are when you
start to ask them to work inside an
actual code base, understanding existing
architecture, trace a real bug, and fix
it without hallucinating half the
project. I gave Kimik A3 a debugging
task. It couldn't identify the bug,
couldn't fix the issue, and started
inventing explanations. And I gave the
same task to Fable 5 and GPT 5.6 on
medium reasoning. Both found the problem
and one shot at the fix. And that is the
gap that nobody wants to discuss. So,
maybe this model isn't as good. But so
far, I've seen it hold up very well.
Over time, we will see more edge cases,
more use cases, you know, around and
around, be shared around the community.
And if you do have some, don't forget to
leave a comment because I'd love to know
what you think about this model.
Now, something that Kimi K3 released
Now, something that Kimi K3 also showed
us, something that Moonshot showed us,
was essentially the fact that you can do
research with interactive visualization.
Is it below a few examples of what Kimi
K3 and Kimi Work can produce? Course,
financial consulting and scientific
research. Essentially, if you weren't
familiar with it, Kimi K3 has its own
work section like called co-work,
ChatGPT work, in which they can do stuff
that you would essentially submit in
real work places. So, you can see case
one here is an interactive 42 years of
AI ASIC industry research website, an
interactive research report that you can
drill into after 120 rounds of, you
know, improvement, we can see so much
stuff here, and this is, of course,
interactive. We can expand this. I mean,
this stuff is super useful. I mean, this
is even moving, okay? And this is the
kind of thing that allows you to
understand large pieces of data, allows
you to present stuff at work. I mean,
it's really depends. I mean, the the the
the use cases here are just shocking
when you think about this. I mean, this
is kind of like the entire document that
they created for AI 2027. I mean, there
are so many useful examples of this.
When a model is agentic, it's able to
code, it's able to visualize things.
This is something that is really, really
useful for those in-depth research
documents, and everything here looks
very, very effective. Now, we can also
look at case study two, fusion industry
research. So, it gives us the case study
on a fusion, nuclear fusion from
scientific industry. You can see it
gives us a PowerPoint presentation, even
including a little video right here,
even including another video right here.
This is just stuff that, like,
previously would have taken not only so
much credits, but just so much time to
do manually yourself. So, when it comes
to powerful research, don't have to
worry about, you know, having all of
those clawed credits running out,
because Kimi Work is here to show you.
And then, lastly, I'm going to show you
the gravitational wave analysis,
analysis of 391 gravitational wave
events using 20-plus concurrent
sub-agents, producing seven scientific
visualizations, two tables, and a
literature synthesis from 10 plus
papers. So, this is something that's
super super effective. Once again, these
kinds of presentations are super super
useful, really in-depth, and of course,
now it goes to show that realistically,
the thing holding you back is of course
not the credits anymore. It's simply
what you ask the model to do.